>> Scott Moss: I'm gonna
walk you through it and
you're totally gonna have a better
understanding after this.
So what you were tasked to do,
you were suppose to create resolvers for
get and get all on both the song and
playlist models.
And then expose them to
the GraphQL router, correct?
All right let's do that.
So let's go to, we'll start with the songs
first, so first you would probably have to
create a song dot resolvers file so
if you didn't start with that, you
could have looked at the users resolvers
file to get a clue of how to do that.
And then the next thing is,
we know we need to get and then get all,
so what I'm gonna do is open
up the song.graphQL here.
>> Scott Moss: So I got the GraphQL file
on the right, the resolvers on the left,
and we can kinda walk
through what's going on.
So let's work on get song.
So if we were to get a song, let's
just delete this and walk through it.
The first thing is this is
a top level resolver so
the root value's probably nothing.
So I'm just gonna put a place holder.
That's just me putting a place holder.
That's all that is is just a place
holder that I'm never gonna use.
This is the argument circuit we passed in.
If I'm gonna get one song, most likely
I'm gonna need to supply an ID.
To get that one song most likely.
How else would I be able to get one song?
We did the same thing on REST.
For REST it was /api/song/idparameter,
remember?
This is the same thing, except for
it's not passing a URL.
It's passing as an input, an argument.
So that means I need to get an ID here.
So if I were to come down here,
when I make this query,
you can see that there's a ID,
it's right there.
>> Scott Moss: That's the ID.
That ID, is this ID.
>> Scott Moss: It's type, this is
caller type of ID, making it required.
It returns a Song type that is also nano,
which is up here.
Everybody following me so far?
Okay.
So, we got the ID.
This user, let's just assume
it's gonna be passed down,
we don't really need it in this query.
In fact, let I'm going to get rid
of it to reduce the complexity.
But that user is always there on the
context object because whenever we pass
that down on the GraphQL router here,
that's where that user's coming from.
We also have their request object.
That's always gonna be in the context,
whether we need it or not.
And the production app, we would probably
use that to make sure that the user has
the authentication rights or
the role to access this resolver.
Maybe search for
songs specifically for this user.
So you would use that a lot.
But for now we're not doing that.
So knowing that, we just need to do a,
we have a ID, we have the song model.
We need to return one song.
If we go look at the controllers that we
had, the queries in the query file that we
made, didn't we have something
here that finds by an ID?
Right there, findById.
So we can use the findById method here
on the song model to find
a song by a given ID.
So we can say Song.findById(id) and
now we have it.
So let's get one song.
Who got this?
Okay.
Cool.
So let's get one song and
then get all songs.
So let's get rid of that.
Let's start down here on the query.
So we'll make one,
we'll call it all songs.
You can call this whatever you want.
This is just the way I write my GraphQL.
I've written so many schema and this is
just like how I started to write them.
I named them all the same, allsongs,
all, followed by the type pluralized.
If I getting one,
I just capitalize the type.
I'm just gonna look at one of these types.
You can name it whatever you want,
doesn't matter,
as long as it matches with your
queries and your resolvers.
They just have to match,
however you wanna do it.
So for allsongs,
it doesn't take any arguments.
And the production app maybe it would,
it would probably take in like,
what you wanna filter by.
And you might have some filter inputs
here like I want songs whose name
start with whatever.
Filtering here.
But for now, we don't have any arguments.
It's just gonna return an array.
Of songs.
That array has to be non-null.
So it should always be an array,
even if the array is empty.
If I wanted to require that it
always has to be a song in there,
I can put an exclamation there and
it says it has to be an array that
also always has a song in it.
But that's not the case.
You might not have songs.
But I should still get back an array.
So let's satisfy that.
If we have all songs, we don't take any
arguments, we don't need the user here,
then I'm not really gonna use
any of these arguments up here.
I don't even really need anything.
I'm just gonna return every song
in the database which is song.find
with an empty query and execute it,
that's gonna get all the songs.
>> Scott Moss: All right,
so we'll save that.
And then down below this is just matching.
So if you pull these up side by side, for
the query type we're gonna make a new
field called allsongs
whose value is allsongs.
That's what happened here, for
the query type we made a new field called
allsongs who's value is gonna
be the result of this function.
Which Song.fine does turn return an array.
Song.fine along as it doesn't error out on
the database will always return an array.
Whether it's empty or not,
that's just how mongoose works.
Always returns an array whether it's empty
or not unless it errors out because It
broke so this function will satisfy
this type we're good there.
Now for the song one we say on the query
object we made a new field called
Song with a capital S whose value is gonna
be the result of the getSong function.
So, Song right here on the query type.
Whose value needs to be the song type.
Don't confuse the two.
This Song function right here has
nothing to do with the song type.
That's just the way I named it.
If that was confusing you,
then I can call this like anything
[LAUGH] I can call this anything.
As long as it's also
called anything over here
>> Scott Moss: Does that make sense?
So, those two have nothing
to do with each other.
That's just my convention for naming
queries that get one type, all right?
I just normally call it
by the same type name.
So, if we look at this, getSong.
Find by ID either returns the song or
it's gonna return null.
So, does this really
satisfy our query here?
>> Scott Moss: It's not a trick question.
Does it, does it?
Cuz think about-
>> Speaker 2: It can't return null.
>> Scott Moss: It can't return null,
exactly.
If this does not find a song
in the database with this ID
its just gonna return null.
Then this will throw an error,
when I say this GraphQL will throw
an error like hey it's null.
You got two choices here, you can
either get rid of the null restriction,
which I don't think I recommend.
Or what you would do here is you
would throw the error yourself.
If it's null,
which is probably a better approach.
So what I would do is come in here and
I would say,
>> Scott Moss: [INAUDIBLE] so
I would say Song.findById and
then if it was not nosong,
then I would just throw
>> Scott Moss: Cannot find song with ID.
If it is there, I'll just return song.
Now I'm just gonna throw an error in.
That might seem like whoa,
where's that error going?
Are you gonna break the app with that.
Well we're using Apollo server,
and what they do is,
any error that's thrown in the resolver
is automatically be caught for you.
And it's going to be
just given to the client.
So that can be good or bad.
If you put some systemic information
in the error, and the client sees that,
you probably don't want that, right?
There's a better approach
to handling errors.
I have a purse that I use on my back end.
It is a little more complicated.
So basically the crux of
it is that you create
sophisticated error messages and error
codes that your front end can respond to.
And then your front end just
responds appropriately.
Just do not send sensitive information,
that's basically it, but end of the day,
you are just throwing errors and
then figuring out what message to throw.
First, let's sort of express where you
pass an error to next, and then at the end
of your express handler you forgot what
message to send back, and a status code.
There is no status codes here.
It's mostly based around whatever
convention you create for your errors.
For me, what we do is, when we throw
errors, we give them like a code.
So it might be error code 1-10.
And then the client knows what to do if
the code is 1, and knows what to do if
the code is 2 and knows what to do if the
code is 3, and it responds appropriately.
Does that makes sense?
So this will satisfy, so
this will always return a song or
it will error before here.
But GraphQL should never
say there's no song.
It should never say that.
It will say there is no
song here though but
GraphQL would never complain
about any questions on that?
Okay, so let's go to Playlist,
>> Scott Moss: And you can go over here.
This was probably harder, right?
Because it has a song type, so
if you go play this resolver,
we need to do a get play list, actually
let's look at this so let's first go here.
So first we need to do a get and
a get all.
So let's define the get, and
that's gonna be the playlist.
Again, this is just my convention.
You can call it whatever you want.
Whenever I'm going a git on a type,
I just normally give the query
the same name as the type itself.
That's just my convention.
So I'm also probably gonna need a ID
to get a playlist by the specific ID.
So I'm doing the same thing.
we can make the same
optimization we just made,
where we're throwing
an error if it's null.
So we can also do that here as well.
And then for all playlists,
it's exactly the same thing.
I'm just going to find and
exec and that's going to do that.
Now, can anybody tell me
why this wouldn't work?
>> Scott Moss: It's exactly
the same as what we just did.
But because the playlist type in
GraphQL is slightly different,
why would this not work?
Or even better,
can you tell me where this would fill?
What query would someone have to ask for
in order for this to break?
>> Speaker 2: Are you
talking about the song?
>> Scott Moss: Talking about the song,
yeah, the songs.
We didn't tell GraphQL
how to resolve songs.
Right now the way this is stored in
the database if you look at the playlist
model, right, it's stored in the database
as an array of strings So, when we query,
let's say I get one play list, and
then I also get the songs, right.
I think the songs pulls to be current
graph qo, the songs are song tight.
We know that song tight was an object,
right.
But in data it is strange.
So what I tried to query it,
GraphQL goes like I got a string, for
which it has to be a song.
We didn't tell GraphQL how to
resolve the songs inside that model.
So this will break.
And I can demonstrate it.
So let's just save all of this.
>> Scott Moss: Start this up and,
something.
>> Scott Moss: Did I do here something?
>> Scott Moss: What happened?
Did y'all see me delete that?
>> Scott Moss: I didn't delete that.
Okay, so let's go back over here.
We'll refresh and then we'll say,
>> Scott Moss: Let's just get all songs,
right?
So get playlist, get all playlist.
All right, this is allPlaylists,
there we go.
We don't have any playlists right now,
so obviously we hit empty array.
So, we would have to create a playlist.
I'm just gonna create a playlist right
quick, so we can see what would happen.
Actually, maybe it'll throw
the error if I just do it now.
No it won't, okay,
I'm just gonna create a playlist so
we can all see what I'm
talking about here.
So let me just come down here.
So let's say Playlist.create, this title.
>> Scott Moss: Hello, we'll actually
have to create some songs too.
That's too much work.
All right.
When we get to mutations I'll show you
that's too much work.
But basically, see look it's
already happening right here.
I'm on the allPlaylist and
I'm saying, cool.
I want the songs and I wanna get
the titles of those songs, right?
But, in the database,
it's just an array of strings.
>> Scott Moss: These songs
are just an array of strings.
We haven't told GraphQL how to
convert those, it's not even GraphQL.
We haven't even told mongo how to convert
those array strings to an object.
Cuz GraphQL is just
gonna take what it gets.
This right here, it's just going to
return a playlist that has a title and
array of strings for
songs, and a favorite.
And they we're saying I want for each item
in that array, I wanna get the ID and
the name, no, we can't do it.
There's no such things.
It's just not there.
So in order to do that, you have to
do a resolver or you can greedy and
be naive and
just populate it all right here.
Like what I said last time,
it's very, very wasteful.
Cuz you might, you will just be doing
it it in case someone asks for songs.
Well they never ask for songs you still
populated anyway which is expensive.
So you probably don't wanna you would
have to make another resolver down here.
And we're really gonna get to that,
you all in the last lesson but there is
a lesson I'll go to more detail about that
>> Scott Moss: So
if you got this far, then, yep,
that's what you had to do.
And then also you just had to make
sure that the resolvers were inside of
the GraphQL router file, which consists
of just importing the resolvers here.
Adding them to this merge, but
not before exporting them and
their appropriate local
GraphQL router file.
So every resource has their
own GraphQL router file,
where the type is being exported.
You will also have to
export the resolvers there.
So the song.GraphQL.Router needed
to export the resolvers, and
then playlist.GraphQL.Router will
also need to export its resolvers.
Therefore it could have been imported
in the main GraphQL router up here.
And then if all these was too confusing,
you could look at the user example,
it's doing the same thing minus
the differences between the queries.